[male voice speaking Cantonese]
[chattering]
[BATOU]
What's the situation?
Fifty-two minutes ago,
the suspect killed
its owner at his condo--
the first crime scene.
The perp fled
and is now holed up
in the second crime scene--
an unmarked alleyway
where its killed two officers.
All exits are blocked off.
We plan to go in in two minutes.
U-Uh...
Trust me, just let him go.
That cyborg guy's
from Section 9.
When they cross your path,
you're in for a
world of trouble.
Sounds like the cyber police
are itchin' to step in.
They're requesting
a data link right now.
Public Security and now them?
Politely ask them
to take a hike.
[voice whispering]
Please help us.
[whirring]
[screeches]
[gunshot]
[FORENSICS CHIEF] There have
already been eight homicides
committed by gynoids this week.
In each case, their cyberbrains
were reinitialized.
And they self-terminated
after murdering their owners.
Of the said units,
this type, 2052 HADALY,
were made by the
LOCUS SOLUS company.
They're preliminary betas
of a mass production model.
Apparently, they were
provided free of charge
to company-contracted
evaluators.
But each unit
has now been recalled.
According to the latest report
they submitted to the
authorities,
no bugs were detected in either
their hardware or software...
You got all that, I hope.
A new brand of gynoids
went berserk
for reasons that no one knows
and snuffed their owners.
The manufacturer got scared
and recalled them.
Now the lawsuits begin,
next the lengthy civil trials,
then blame is laid
on the producer,
followed by massive payouts.
Yeah, I got the gist of it
except for why Section 9
was called in.
[ARAMAKI]
You understand, do you?
More often than not,
what we call "understanding"
is based upon wishful thinking.
There are two reasons for
our involvement at this time.
The first is that no lawsuits
are going to be filed
by the next of kin.
Any potential suits against
the manufacturer, LOCUS SOLUS,
have been settled out of court.
Second, there was a politician
among the group of victims
who were killed,
as well as a Public Security
official who'd recently retired.
It's possible that this
was a terrorist act.
Therefore, it falls
under our purview
to determine whether we ought
to head up this case.
Ishikawa and Azuma, you run down
leads on the victims.
And I want you two to check out
the gynoids in question.
Uh... But--
[ARAMAKI]
No questions. Get going.
Let's be clear: I didn't ask
to be your partner.
I'm... the first to admit that
I might not measure up
to the Major.
No, that isn't it.
I hear that she's still
reported as missing.
[BATOU]
The only things she really owned
were her brain and her Ghost.
Of course, she herself
wasn't too sure
that she had even those.
The Major's prosthetic
body and cyberbrain
were government-issued
equipment.
And the memories
inside that brain
were the government's property,
being intel and all.
But the only thing
the top brass is
determined to recover
is those memories.
It's of no consequence to them
whether she's alive or dead.
Well, how do you
wanna start on this?
[BATOU]
LOCUS SOLUS is a manufacturer
in the Northern Frontier.
Let's begin with the basics
and pay a visit to
the local crime lab.
[chattering]
You're here, huh?
We're here about that doll
this guy smashed up.
You are aware of the fact that
thing killed two of our men?
You two don't expect to walk out
of here with it, do you?
Our investigation will determine
whether we need to do that.
[inhales, sighs]
Forensics is up on
the 19th floor,
down the hall on the right.
Do I have to show you the way?
No, thanks. We didn't come
all the way here for a tour.
You know, there's
an old saying that goes:
"Not even crows will peck at
a persimmon that's still green."
But you can always count
on the bastards
to start circling overhead
when it's ripe.
You know how it is,
back when you were a cop.
Wouldn't you have spewed out
a few choice words
at the son of a bitch
who came in outta the blue
and swiped a case
right out from under you?
That's what pissed me off.
It's like I was looking
at the old me from the past.
[BATOU scoffs]
"You mustn't find fault
with the mirror
when it's your own face
that's distorted."
"The mirror does not reflect
the truth; it only obscures it."
Right?
Hell, the last thing
I wanna see in a mirror
is your ugly reflection.
[HARAWAY] If I told you once,
I told you a thousand times.
I'm not doing
a cooperative examination.
Keep pestering me, and I'll
have you taken into custody.
Huh?
Public Security, I'm Togusa.
And my scary associate here--
Must be the one who filled this
girl with double-aught buck.
Now if you had used .50-caliber
hollowpoints instead,
then it would have been
a simple matter to restore her.
Three people were killed. And
two of those were policemen.
She tried to commit suicide
before you shot her.
Didn't she?
[TOGUSA gasps]
Uh... What do you
mean "suicide", uh...
[HARAWAY]
Haraway.
Miss Haraway. What do you mean
a robot committed suicide?
The gynoids give themselves
authorization to attack humans
by deliberately malfunctioning.
Therefore, as a logical
consequence of this,
they're also freeing themselves
from the Third Law
of the Ethics Code.
[TOGUSA] "Protect your
own existence so long as
such protection does not
harm a human being."
I think it would
be more accurate
to call it
"self-termination," personally.
[HARAWAY exhales]
Yes, if you're assuming that
there's a clear distinction
between man
and machine, that is.
[TOGUSA]
Is this "suicide" phenomenon
limited to a particular model?
[HARAWAY] I wish I could
say it is, but no.
These past few years,
we've been seeing a spike
in robot-related incidents.
It's especially bad
in the pet models.
[TOGUSA]
Any idea what's causing it?
[HARAWAY]
Who knows?
Cyberbrain corruption by
a virus or micro-organism?
Human error during
the manufacturing process?
Degraded functionality due to
age-related deterioration?
Take your pick.
Personally, though...
--[TOGUSA] What?
--[HARAWAY scoffs]
If you ask me, I think
it's because humans
discard their robots.
You know, when they
no longer want them?
When the new models come out,
people buy the latest
and greatest.
Some of those that are tossed
out, end up on the streets
where they gradually deteriorate
from lack of maintenance.
[HARAWAY]
All the robots want is
for us to stop treating
them as disposable.
Come on...
[HARAWAY]
Humans and robots are different.
But that sort of faith
is nothing more than
the recognition that
humans aren't robots,
which is on the same level as
saying that white is not black.
[HARAWAY]
Unlike robots intended for
heavy labor and industrial use,
pet androids and gynoids
weren't designed
with utilitarianism and
pragmatism in mind.
[HARAWAY] Why did we feel
compelled to create them
in man's image?
An idealized image, at that.
[HARAWAY] For what reason
or purpose does humanity
go to such lengths to engender
these likenesses of itself?
[HARAWAY]
Do you have children?
I do--a girl.
[HARAWAY] Children have always
deviated from the human norm.
That is, if we
define a "human" as
something that has
a fixed identity
and behaves in accordance
with its own free will.
What then, are children,
those early-stage humans who
exist in a state of chaos?
Even though they physically
resemble humans,
they differ from
them drastically--
mentally and emotionally.
The dolls that
little girls play with
when they pretend to be "Mommy"
aren't merely surrogate babies
or toys on which to
practice mothering skills.
Maybe these girls aren't
just rehearsing for motherhood.
Perhaps playing with dolls
is very nearly
the same thing as
actually raising children.
I have no idea what
you're talking about.
[HARAWAY]
In other words,
raising a child is
the quickest way
and as close as you can get to
realizing an age-old dream:
Creating an artificial
human being.
That's how I see it.
Children aren't...
They aren't dolls!
Do you know Descartes?
He didn't distinguish between
man and machine,
organic and inorganic.
He owned a doll that resembled
his daughter, Francine,
who died at age five.
He gave it her name
and he adored it.
Hmm. I almost forgot about that.
[TOGUSA]
Look, can we get back to
the real-world matter at hand?
We need some info.
I'd like to hear
your expert opinion
on that LOCUS SOLUS robot,
type 2052 HADALY.
Well, let's see.
It's a fine piece of work.
I'm told it's a beta-model
mass-production unit,
but it's built to unusual specs.
Unusual specs?
It's equipped with organs that
aren't needed on a maid-type.
Meaning...
[HARAWAY]
It's a sexroid.
It's not a hobby you
can brag about in public,
but it's not illegal.
I get it now. No wonder the next
of kin dropped the lawsuits.
As their cyberbrains start to
shut down, they reinitialize.
It's been a standard practice
to have a built-in safeguard
for the control software's
technical data.
However...
[TOGUSA]
Hmm? What is it?
[HARAWAY] There was a file
left in the audio buffer;
I'll play it.
[GIRL'S VOICE]
Please help us...
Please help--
[HARAWAY]
Huh...
[BATOU]
Thanks for all your help.
[TOGUSA]
Hmm?
Hey!
Um, excuse me, but may
I ask you a personal question?
No, I've never given birth
nor have I raised any children.
And I'm not registered as a
donor at the egg bank, either.
Thank you for your time, Miss...
Just "Haraway."
No Ms., Mrs., or Miss.
[TOGUSA]
Well, she certainly wasn't
your typical engineer, was she?
[BATOU] Probably fills out the
"comments" sections on forms.
I used to do that.
[TOGUSA] That's why you
weren't promoted quicker.
[BATOU] Anyway, I guess we
should keep the cyberbrain
of that gynoid at
the Section 9 lab.
[TOGUSA]
So, you're telling me
we're not gonna see
that lady again?
[BATOU] She the type
you like to hang out with?
[TOGUSA] Yeah, I've got a thing
for weird older women. What now?
[BATOU]
We'll do this by the book.
[TOGUSA]
Shipping inspector next?
[AGENT 09]
09 calling 907.
602 in progress at
a boathouse in Sector 201.
Victim is a shipping inspector
at LOCUS SOLUS.
Area secured, police on-scene.
[TOGUSA]
907, roger.
Whoa, what a coincidence.
[BATOU]
"On ev'ry spring day,
between this world and the next,
I spur on the coach."
You here alone? What's up?
Koga went back to base
with the stiff after
getting reacquainted with the
tuna sandwich he ate for dinner.
[BATOU]
That guy's pathetic.
[ISHIKAWA] The crime scene
as of 22 minutes ago.
You made a rookie
carry that thing back?
[ISHIKAWA]
Hey, it's a learning experience.
Okay, here's a rundown
of the situation.
Match run on the
victim's cyberbrain.
Jacques Vaucanson,
Chief Shipping Inspector
for LOCUS SOLUS. Age 54.
Submitted vacation
request five days ago,
then dropped off the radar.
Three days ago,
victim signed a one-week rental
agreement for this houseboat.
Murder weapons were
kitchen implements
that came with the boat.
Search run on vehicles
in the area.
Record located of
parked crime vehicle.
[ISHIKAWA] Check for yakuza
affiliation in progress.
[ISHIKAWA] Seven cards of
various types found in overcoat
believed to belong
to the victim.
Check for usage in progress.
[ISHIKAWA]
Whoa, hold on.
We've got ourselves a
.38-caliber Smith & Wesson here.
A model 2602.
[sniffs]
[ISHIKAWA] Looks like he
didn't have time to use it.
[TOGUSA] That might not
have done him any good
if he came up against a cyborg
that was illegally amped up...
...or a pro pretending
to be a psycho.
[FORENSICS CHIEF]
909 calling 906.
Crime scene ETA, 20 seconds.
Hey, don't mess up--
[ISHIKAWA]
We're not touching anything.
[TOGUSA] Let's let
Forensics take it from here.
907 to 09: Relinquishing
crime scene to 969.
[AGENT 09]
09, acknowledged.
[sighs] And today is
my daughter's birthday.
[BATOU scoffs]
Family man.
Want a lift?
I'm headed the
other way. Ishikawa?
[ISHIKAWA]
I'm the other direction, too.
You heard him. The kid's
birthday takes priority.
You boys having a good time?
[ISHIKAWA] A personal
appearance! That's a rare sight.
Our stiff was missing
a few parts,
so I thought I'd get involved.
Well then, we'll get
outta your hair.
Take your time lookin' for 'em.
Why don't the local
cops handle this?
Dunno, but the old man's
worked up over it.
[AGENT A]
Found them!
They're sitting right here
in jars in the refrigerator!
Heart. Liver. Kidneys.
The pancreas, too.
This is one tidy son of a bitch.
If you buy her
dry food instead of
that Inumaru brand wet dog food,
it'll keep for six months.
I'm not feeding
that garbage to her.
So I hear that you're
teamed up with Togusa.
Well, it's better than some
rookie fresh out of the academy
who's more of a pain
than a partner.
Well, he's competent enough
considering he was
a former detective.
I'm fine with it.
Well, I sure hope so because
the only person you
ever partnered with
that you thought made
the grade was the Major.
--Look, I--
--Ishikawa...
You know, I liked you better
when you were the quiet type.
--[BATOU] Later.
--[ISHIKAWA] Batou.
[BATOU]
Yeah, what?
[ISHIKAWA]
You should take my advice.
Switch to dry.
Just from the standpoint
of nutritional balance,
it really is
the smartest choice.
[GABRIEL whines]
[barks]
[dog nails clicking]
[BATOU sighs]
[GABRIEL snores]
[FORENSICS CHIEF]
Death was caused by crushing
the cervical vertebrae
with blunt force trauma.
Kitchen utensils weren't used
to murder the victim,
but were instead used
to mutilate the corpse.
[AZUMA] You're saying
someone killed the guy,
then leisurely dismantled him?
[FORENSICS CHIEF] Yeah, that's
what it boils down to.
We confirmed that the organs
found in the refrigerator
belonged to the victim.
They showed early signs of
gastritis and cirrhosis
of the liver. Looks like
he had a drinking problem.
[ISHIKAWA] Why did he gut
the guy so meticulously?
[KOGA] Maybe to make us think
he's mentally unstable
or a sicko?
Or reinforce a message of
revenge or punishment.
[ISHIKAWA]
Which would nix the whole
pro hit disguised
as a thrill kill theory.
What was with
the mangled doorknob?
[FORENSICS CHIEF] Analysis
determined
that the perp's prosthetic limb
was a Chinese-made NR26.
[ISHIKAWA]
A Crab Claw, huh?
[AZUMA]
That's military-issue, isn't it?
[KOGA] They're available
on the black market,
but lot of 'em are defective.
[FORENSICS CHIEF]
It matched the lacerations
on the victim's head.
[ISHIKAWA] What about
the owner of that car,
the one with rap sheet?
[KOGA] It seems there a lot
of illegal modifications,
so tracking it down wasn't--
[ISHIKAWA]
Just report your findings.
[KOGA] According to my
follow-up investigation
on the records of the
neighboring parking lot,
the car belonged
to the Kojinkai,
a violent criminal organization.
It was bulletproofed,
and the chassis and
rear shocks were beefed up.
It's been spotted at
multiple violent crime scenes.
[AZUMA] Tricked-out wheels
for a tricked-out cyborg.
[ISHIKAWA] For hired muscle
with illegally amped output.
Could this be yakuza payback?
So a motive. What do we
have on the Kojinkai?
[AZUMA] Japanese crime mob.
They go way back.
Drugs, prostitution,
human trafficking,
real estate, extortion.
They've got a finger
in every pie.
Their boss, a guy named Inoue,
got his head ripped off
by a HADALY.
His deputy, Wakabayashi,
is running things now.
[KOGA]
It's obvious!
[AZUMA]
Avenging the previous boss
is a prerequisite
for taking over.
There's one problem with that.
If the victim knew there was
every likelihood of retaliation,
then why choose
a place to lie low
that's inside
Kojinkai territory?
[AZUMA] His cyberbrain
data's been wiped,
so I guess we'll have
to check out his associates.
[ISHIKAWA] This is clearly a job
for the local cops, not us.
You're positive it's
not a terrorist act
disguised as a rogue robot?
[ISHIKAWA] So far, we haven't
found any political factors
that link all the victims.
It's looking pretty unlikely.
[ARAMAKI] Batou and Togusa
will work full-time
investigating these
HADALY runaways,
including this incident.
The rest of you,
return to your regular shifts.
Dismissed.
[ARAMAKI]
Togusa.
Before you leave here, see me.
[ARAMAKI]
Your thoughts?
Uh... I assume we need to
see if there's a connection
between the Kojinkai
and LOCUS SOLUS.
[ARAMAKI]
I was talking about Batou.
It's imperative
that partners monitor
each other's mental states
with regularity.
Even so, I'm not a cyborg,
and I'm certainly
no cyber-physician.
Well, "to understand Caesar,
one not need be Caesar."
You have a family, as I recall.
Do you consider yourself
a happy man?
I guess. Sure.
A man once said that people
are never as happy or unhappy
as they might think.
That what's truly important is
to never grow weary of
your life and aspirations.
What are you getting at?
When I look at Batou lately,
I'm reminded of the Major
and the way she was
just before she vanished.
"Let a man walk alone,
let him commit no sin,
let him have few wishes,
like an elephant in the forest."
So Chief, what made you choose
me for this assignment?
[ARAMAKI]
The Major, she's the one
who scouted you
from the police force.
[BATOU]
So what did he have to say?
Pearls of wisdom,
a bit of poetry,
and I don't have to be
Caesar to understand him.
That goes without saying
'cause it's impossible for
the world to live up to
standards set by
the giants of history.
[TOGUSA gasps]
You planning to start
a war or something?
[BATOU] One need not be
a yakuza when one goes to
a yakuza office, but you
do need to pack some heat.
[TOGUSA]
Look, before we head out,
I wanna make sure of something.
Yeah, what?
We're just going there
to talk, right?
You hate the yakuza, right?
Can't stand 'em.
Same here.
So we're just going to talk.
I said, when you go
to a yakuza office--
Yeah, you don't have
to be a yakuza.
But you also said
that you needed weapons.
I have a family to think of.
I'll go by myself if you want.
No, I'm going.
That's what partners do.
I want you to give me
your word though.
We're just gonna talk.
I'll avoid shooting as
much as possible.
You happy now?
Yes, I am.
Then let's go do this, Partner.
Who the hell are you?
We just wanna talk with
your buddy, Wakabayashi.
Go get him.
[screaming]
[MEN yelling, screaming]
You said you would
avoid shooting...
I did avoid shooting...
as much as possible.
Now move, Point Man.
There's more coming.
[MEN yelling]
A hologram?!
That son of a bitch!
He hacked our eyes!
You can blame those
cheap-ass cyberbrains of yours.
[groaning]
What is it?
That stairwell's
dark and narrow.
Now what?
Now we go up.
Come on, I'll go first.
No, I will.
You're too big for me
to see or shoot past,
so I can't cover you.
[gasps]
[gunshot, explosion]
Huh...?
--[gunshots]
--[screams]
[groans]
[BATOU] I set off those
little welcome gifts
you dropped on our heads.
Even assuming that
they would've gone off
within the maximum
effective radius,
you'd have to use a lot
more than two of 'em
to take out a cyborg
in body armor.
Why go do that?
You'll tell me about the hit
on the shipping inspector.
And what your connection is
to LOCUS SOLUS.
[CRAB MAN growling]
[BATOU scoffs]
I was wondering
when you'd show up.
Here, Crab Boy.
You don't look appetizing,
but I'll bite.
[CRAB MAN yells]
[BATOU] Flashy moves like
that never connect.
Idiot.
He knew where the
inspector was and told us!
So we dealt with him.
Look, I just got outta
the joint after three years;
I dunno shit about what
the old boss was up to
with the company!
Still breathing? Partner?
[TOGUSA] The faces of
my wife and daughter
flashed before my
eyes back there.
That wasn't your family's faces
you were looking at.
It was the Angel of Death.
[ARAMAKI] You were ordered
to conduct an investigation.
I don't recall telling
you to cut corners
and take the law
into your own hands.
And I certainly don't
recall telling you
to launch an assault
on a yakuza office.
We're not in
the middle of a jungle.
And you two aren't Special
Forces wetwork specialists.
Are you still pissed off?
I'm not pissed off.
But while I don't want
to sound ungrateful
to somebody who
saved my life today...
[tires screech]
It seems pretty obvious that
I'm gonna need a few extra lives
if I plan to survive on
the job as your partner.
Only you and me working
this case full-time.
Half-assed measures aren't
going to get us anywhere.
If something fishy's going on
between LOCUS SOLUS and them,
then they're definitely
gonna bite at the bait.
That's why you did
something so over the top?
If the Old Man was really bent
about what we did,
then we'd be at Section 9
pulling desk duty right now.
You can drop me off up here.
[BATOU]
See ya.
[WOMAN] You've stepped
inside the kill zone.
[gun cocks]
[BATOU grunts, groans]
[GIRL gasps]
--[OLD MAN gasps]
--[BATOU growls]
Now don't go screwing around
with the settings
on that right arm.
Some of these updated
drivers have a tendency
to conflict with
fire control software
and cause degraded
functionality.
Just leave it be.
If that happens,
I'll just get it reset.
Hey, so tell me,
what do you think they did
with my original arm parts?
Forget that.
The organic components
in the arm you've got
have been matched to your DNA
and are virtually the same.
In other words,
after I break this in,
it should be as good
as my old arm.
--[TOGUSA grunts]
--[GABRIEL whines]
[TOGUSA]
Ow! Hold on, damn it!
[BATOU chuckles]
Hey, wait a minute.
Since you're bringing
her here, that means--
[ISHIKAWA] Sorry we had to
break into your cozy love nest.
The thought of that
poor hound sitting alone,
howling for her missing master,
starving and covered in
her own shit broke my heart.
Ah, well. I'm a softie
for a pooch.
But I'm the one who took that
beast home for the night.
My daughter was thrilled,
but my wife is still pissed
about the mess she left
on the carpet.
So how long did you have me
under surveillance?
[ISHIKAWA] Don't sweat it.
It's no big deal.
Yeah, it was! You were
using me a smokescreen!
[ISHIKAWA] Not my fault you're
too green to spot a tail.
If you're gonna hate someone,
hate the Old Man.
Is she a clone?
Originals are pricey.
[BATOU]
From what I understand,
this is the first
type of dog breed
by artificial insemination.
Allowing someone to hack into
your cyberbrain that way
isn't like you.
When your daily routine
becomes a pattern,
that's when you walk
into a trap.
I told you to switch over
to the dry food.
But that's her favorite food.
And besides, that's the
only store in the area
where I can buy it.
Well, someone tugged your
strings to make you go berserk.
You started off
the festivities by
shooting five rounds
into your own arm.
Then you came within a breath of
blowing away the store owner.
Perhaps you're off your game,
but there aren't many people
who would have the capability
of hacking your cyberbrain.
Other than the Major, that is.
I can't understand
why they didn't make me
blow my head off
right from the start.
Their goal wasn't to eliminate
you; it was to cause a scandal.
Think about it.
You burst into a main yakuza
office, gun blazing,
and sent at least a dozen people
to the hospital
or the afterlife.
And before the day was out,
you shot up a convenience store.
Anybody would assume
that you're either nuts
or you've got one serious
cyberbrain malfunction.
[TOGUSA]
Hey, wait a minute.
This attack proves that
this case isn't merely
a simple accident.
If we back off now then--
"What's the point of there
being a Section 9?"
If the Major were here, I'm
betting that's what she'd say.
Instructions from the Old Man:
"Continue your work.
But until you obtain material
evidence in this case,
there can be no official support
from this point forward."
I suppose we'll have to go
check out LOCUS SOLUS in person.
[ISHIKAWA] He said,
"Speed is the key for secrecy.
Fly to the Northern
Frontier ASAP."
Go up north?
[ISHIKAWA]
You two aren't up for it?
No! It's just... the dog...
[ISHIKAWA] Oh, now the issue
here is what to do with a mutt
owned by a guy, a bachelor
no less, in our line of work!
And of all the breeds
in the world,
you had to pick a
high-maintenance one!
Figure it out
your own damn selves!
[TOGUSA sighs]
[GABRIEL whines]
[propellers whirring]
[BATOU]
In its heyday,
this was the Etorofu
Special Economic Zone,
built to be the greatest
information-intensive city
in the Far East.
All that's left
to show it was ever here
is this forest of giant
metal grave markers.
Its iffy sovereignty status has
made it the perfect hangout
for multinationals and
the criminal organizations
that feed on their scraps.
It's a no-man's-land
beyond the reach
of both the UN's Net Police
and ASEAN Cybercops.
There's a quote about how
an object built by an individual
is as much an expression of
the builder's genetic phenotype
as the builder himself.
Yeah, but that guy
was talking about
beaver dams and spider webs.
Give me coralline algae and the
coral reefs they create anytime.
It's too bad these are
nowhere near as pretty.
If life's true nature
is information
that's passed down via genes,
then society and civilization
are nothing more than
gigantic memory systems.
That would make cities huge
external memory devices.
"How precious also are thy
thoughts unto me, O God!
How great is the sum of them!"
If I should count them, they are
more in number than the sand."
That's Psalm 139
from the Book of David,
the Old Testament, right?
The way it calls up quotes
at the drop of a hat,
maybe the phenotype of
your external memory device
has some of your
philosophical leanings.
Yeah, like you're one
to talk, Plato.
[ISHIKAWA]
Excuse me, Fellas,
we'll be over the
LOCUS SOLUS building soon.
I'll do a slow flyby for ya,
so hold on tight
and enjoy the view.
[ISHIKAWA] All right, that's
the end of our little side tour.
Now coming in to land.
[TOGUSA]
"Angel Forms, who lay intrans't,
Thick as Autumnal Leaves...
Nine days they fell;
confounded Chaos roared."
You're quoting Milton this time?
Well, I got news for you,
Partner, we aren't Satan.
[dogs pant, howl]
[CHILDREN laughing]
[LIN gasps]
B-Batou!
You're a real bigshot now.
When did you grow the stones
to drop the "sir" with me?
[LIN] I haven't forgotten all
that I owe you! Really, I swear!
I never recall you to my memory
because I have never
forgotten you.
[LIN]
Cut me some slack, Batou! Sir.
I have too much dignity to let
you butter me up with "sir."
[LIN] Please forgive me!
I'm begging you!
I'll be in your debt!
[BATOU]
Kim. Does that sound familiar?
No, no, I've never heard of him.
I-I mean, guys with that name
are a dime a dozen around here,
like a million of them!
Maybe, but I'm looking
for one Kim in particular.
[LIN] Hey, there's such a thing
as loyalty in my line of work.
"There are two kinds of loyalty.
One maintains secrecy;
the other, openness.
But the two cannot coexist."
What kind of loyalty
do you have?
[LIN] That same guy
said that without lies,
there can be no truth!
[BATOU]
I'll ask once again.
You know this
Kim person, don't you?
I really don't know him!
I mean, I don't know
that particular Kim!
[TOGUSA]
"When we face death,
life is like a puppet
on a festival cart.
As soon as one string is cut,
it crumples and fades."
[TOGUSA]
Well?
He started out being assigned as
a long-range scout
for the military.
"Having failed in leading,
having failed in following,
he is fit only to die
by the side of the road."
His career was shot
to hell for things like
running black market arms deals
while he was bouncing between
Special Forces and
cyber warfare units.
And, in the end, he wound up as
another stereotypical hacker.
One of those "colorful
history" types, huh?
Have you ever heard
the old adage:
"If an ass goes a-traveling,
he'll not return as a horse"?
He is an ass,
just a dumb son of a bitch
who bit off more
than he could chew.
You coming?
[TOGUSA]
Batou. Upstairs in the study.
We got here too late, obviously.
It looks as though he
tried hack into some place
and got himself fried
by an attack barrier.
Well, even if the guy was alive,
I doubt that he would've
been any use to us.
"In accordance with
the deceased's wishes,
we decline offers of
live or artificial flowers
or releasing of birds."
Right.
Hey!
"He did not lie like a corpse."
Even the great Confucius
offered sage advice that
one shouldn't play possum.
I haven't got time
for your stupid games.
Now pull yourself
together and let's talk.
[KIM laughs]
[KIM]
It's been a long time;
not since the Nemuro
landing operation.
[BATOU]
I'm here on business.
[KIM]
LOCUS SOLUS, right?
They got into robot
manufacturing late in the game,
but once they began
focusing exclusively on
developing and producing
high-end gynoids,
their business started
to expand rapidly.
It's rumored that they're
cozy with politicians,
high-ranking bureaucrats,
and even organized crime.
[KIM] They got paranoid about
visits from the authorities,
so they set up their
production line inside
a multinational factory ship
that's anchored off the coast.
The dolls they make there
are fine pieces of work.
Very sophisticated.
Sophisticated enough to commit
murder and then kill themselves?
[KIM] If that's true,
it's awfully disturbing.
[KIM] I don't understand it
when people try to mimic humans
by breathing souls into dolls.
The definition of
a truly beautiful doll
is a flesh and blood body
devoid of a soul--
A corpse standing on tiptoes,
teetering on the
brink of collapse.
That's the reason
why you decided
to turn yourself into a...
...cyberized invalid?
[KIM]
In terms of physical appearance
and grace of movement--
No. If you compare the two,
then just in their
very existence,
humans don't hold
a candle to dolls.
The inherent flaws
in man's knowledge
lead to flaws in man's reality.
That sort of perfection
can only be achieved by
something that either
possesses no consciousness
or infinite consciousness.
In other words, it's only
attainable by dolls or gods.
Would you mind if we got down
to the business at hand now?
[KIM] Actually, there is
one other type of being
that's on the same level
as dolls or gods.
[BATOU]
Animals.
[KIM] The skylarks
of Shelly's poem are
filled with the joy
of the deep subconscious,
something that
creatures like us,
with our indomitable
sense of self,
are incapable of experiencing.
For the descendants
of those who ate
of the fruit of
the Tree of Knowledge,
that's a far more difficult
proposition than
becoming as gods.
Therefore, you chose
to put yourself
into the body of a doll
and play dead.
Is that why you did it?
[KIM]
In the words of Confucius,
"Not yet understanding life,
how can you understand death?
Few people know death..."
[KIM]
"...we only endure it.
Not out of determination,
but usually from
stupidity and custom;
and most men only die
because they know not
how to prevent dying."
[BATOU]
But to a living doll,
death is a given,
a fact of life.
So that was the reasoning behind
Kim's decision to get
a full prosthetic body.
[TOGUSA]
Well?
Yeah, his career was shot
to hell for things like
running black market arms deals.
All the while,
he was bouncing between
Special Forces
and cyber warfare units.
And in the end, he wound up as
another stereotypical hacker.
One of those
"colorful history" types?
Have you ever heard
the old adage:
"If an ass goes a-traveling,
he'll not return as a horse"...?
What's the matter? Let's go.
[TOGUSA]
Batou!
"On this day of the month,
the deceased wishes
to inform the public
of the happy and joyful
occasion of his timely death."
Hey!
[KIM/TOGUSA laughs]
[laughing continues]
[KIM/TOGUSA] This is seriously
disturbing, isn't it?
Trust me, I know how you feel.
It's the uncertainty
that perhaps
something that appears
to be alive actually isn't.
On the other hand,
it might be the
uncertainty that perhaps
something that doesn't
appear to be alive actually is.
[KIM] Do you want to know why
people are so unnerved by dolls?
It's because the dolls
are modeled after them.
In other words, dolls are
no less than humanity itself.
That gives rise to fear--
fear that humans
might be reduced to
simple mechanisms and materials.
In basic terms, it's the fear
that the human phenomenon
is fundamentally devoid
of meaning and purpose.
Cut the crap and let's
get down to business.
[KIM/TOGUSA] Even science,
which has long endeavored to
shed light on
the phenomenon of life,
has played a major role
in fomenting this fear.
The belief that nature
is quantifiable
leads to the
hypothetical conclusion
that humanity can
also be reduced to
simple mechanical components.
"The human body is a machine
which winds its own springs.
It is the living image
of perpetual movement."
[KIM/TOGUSA] The 18th century
"man as machine" theory has been
resurrected by cyberbrains
and prosthetic body technology.
Ever since it became possible
to externalize memory
through the use of computers,
man has been aggressively
mechanizing himself.
This is man's quest to
expand the upper limits
of his abilities as
a living creature.
It's a manifestation
of the desire
to overcome Darwinian
survival of the fittest
and to break free of
the evolutionary rat race
through sheer strength of will.
It's also the desire
to outdo the natural world
that gave birth
to mankind itself.
[KIM/TOGUSA]
God envy--
The conceited fantasy
to be a life form
equipped with perfect hardware
spawned this nightmare.
"And God forever geometrizes."
[screech]
[TOGUSA gasps]
--[gunshot]
--[BATOU gasps]
Let's go!
[TOGUSA]
Batou!
[missile whistling]
[TOGUSA groans]
[gasping]
[screams]
How ya feeling there?
I'm, uh... What the hell?
Someone hacked your cyberbrain.
You were in a virtual
experience maze.
Like good things,
bad things have a habit of
turning up in sets
of three also.
You don't want to see,
so you don't look.
And even if you notice,
you say nothing.
And if you say something,
no one listens.
Then, catastrophe comes calling.
But in our world,
we don't get three chances.
If we miss that first hint,
it's all over.
I've already told you once that
we don't have time
for your damn games, Kim!
[KIM]
When did you figure it out?
The easiest person
in the world to trick
is the one who thinks
that he's tricking you.
It's no secret that you were
once a cyber warfare specialist,
but coincidentally, I'm a
veteran infowar pro myself.
Besides, there's a guardian
angel over my shoulder.
Right now, you're gonna
call up the hall data
from that huge external memory
device of yours.
And then, we'll
have a look at it.
[BATOU]
According to Jacob Grimm,
an artificial human
called a golem
was brought to life by
inscribing the word "aemaeth,"
meaning "truth,"
on its forehead.
But if you erase
the first two letters, "ae,"
it becomes "maeth,"
meaning "death,"
and the creature turns
back to lifeless clay.
[BATOU]
This was an omen warning me that
there was no truth to
be found here in the mansion.
[KIM]
Are you telling me that
someone breached
the barrier I set up?!
Impossible! No one
could pull that off!
[BATOU]
Weren't you listening?
I said I have a guardian angel.
This game's over, Kim.
You'll tell us everything
we wanna know.
That was just an ordinary doll.
[BATOU]
You need to learn when to quit!
You think I'd fall
for a stunt like that?!
[KIM] Batou, can you
say with certainty
that this isn't
just a continuation
of the reality manufactured
by my virtual signals?
As we speak, my Ghost
is whispering to me.
[KIM]
Humanity is merely a thread
from which the dream
of life is woven.
That is, if our dreams,
intelligence,
and yes, even our Ghosts,
are rips and distortions
that arise in the uniform,
timeless matrix...
No matter how you spin it,
you and I are both
worthless human beings,
but the difference is we're not
walking in the same shoes.
Folks who don't believe
in the Ghost
will never know madness,
schizophrenia,
or a million other things
inherent in the human condition.
But when they choose to live
Ghostless, what's the point?
They're really not better off.
What flesh you have left
will never decay;
it'll keep on functioning
until you finally get
what's coming to you.
--[electric zap]
--[KIM groans]
We're back in the
real world now, aren't we?
Please just tell me we are.
There's no distinction between
a memory and
your recollection of it.
In each case, any understanding
of its significance
only comes after the fact.
Not being able to save the
subjective passage of time...
...that's where the challenge
is, and things get a bit tricky.
This is just one price
you have to pay
when you have a cyberbrain
and you allow your memories
to be shared externally.
I wanna ask you something:
Do you really have a wife and
kid waiting for you at home?
Are you still a bachelor,
sitting alone,
with only a dog for company in
some dingy apartment somewhere,
dreaming about
how nice it would be
to have a family of your own?
Don't you wanna go and
find out the answer to that?
Why not stop him
if you knew he'd try that?!
It was the only way I could find
out what his objective was.
After he set his trap, knowing
that I'd come to him for help,
he planned to infect us both
with that virtual experience
in order to get rid of us.
Probably something like that.
When he had me
dancing to his tune
and I blew off my right arm,
I suspected he had planted
a tap in my cyberbrain.
As usual, Ishikawa
was right when he said that
anybody who was capable
of pulling that off
would hardly stop there.
LOCUS SOLUS is probably
thinking the very same thing.
You expected this would
happen from the start?
The plan was to make him believe
that I'd fallen into his trap.
That was the only way
I could dive into him,
but Kim's a talented
son of a bitch.
If I hadn't gotten that sign,
I never would've made it out.
Now about that "guardian angel"
you mentioned earlier,
it wasn't...
She's gone away
for good probably.
Beyond the rips in the
uniform matrix is her world.
She's somewhere out
in the boundless Net,
connected to the entire
realm, fused to it.
So if you're looking to prove
your own existence,
you can find as many ways
as there are Ghosts.
You got a daughter
yourself, remember?
Back when we were
stationed in the jungle,
even that bastard Kim
must have understood that.
I've come out of this with
a valuable lesson also.
What's that?
That I don't have what it takes,
the right stuff,
to be your partner.
What are you, wimping out on me?
It's not due to
anything you said.
However, I do wanna make it back
to my daughter in one piece.
Well, I'm still gonna make
you earn your paycheck,
no matter what you decide.
You're not done yet?
But the files we pulled
from his cyberbrain
prove that the LOCUS SOLUS'
criminal was--
All we've got on him is
obstructing an investigation
and violating the
Cyberbrain Ethics Act.
And besides, our investigation
is strictly off the books.
If we're gonna prove that there
was criminal liability
in the killing rampage
those gynoids went on,
then we gotta come up with
hard evidence, as you know.
Yeah, perhaps,
but Kim is a dead end.
No, far from it.
In fact, I put his cyberbrain
into a Ghost pack,
but the thing's still
linked to LOCUS SOLUS.
We have to finish this and
tie up all the loose ends
before they say to hell
with appearances.
Ages ago, there was a
terrific expression:
"When right and
wrong are in doubt,
beat the drums
and attack."
Yep, when the
talking goes nowhere,
then it's time for violence.
Hey! This is different;
worlds apart from busting in
on some yakuza office!
I won't be counting on your
Mateba to watch my back.
"Birds hide by flying high up
into the heavens,
and fish by diving down
into the depths of the sea..."
[BATOU]
Contact made with escort.
[TOGUSA]
Roger.
[ESCORT]
I'm amazed you've got the guts
to dive with a body like that.
It's so deep here
that if you went down,
even we couldn't retrieve you.
[BATOU] I used to know a cyborg
who went scuba diving for fun.
[ESCORT]
Yeah?
[BATOU] I don't know what
the hell she was thinking.
[ESCORT]
I'm only going along with this
because Lin vouched for you.
But they say that nobody's
ever gone to that ship
and lived to tell the tale.
I hope you know
what you're doing.
[BATOU] That makes
two of us. Take us in.
[ESCORT]
Hold on tight.
[TOGUSA] Contact with sensor
picket line in 12 seconds.
I'm gonna send out
a virtual signal
for two seconds
on their channel.
[BATOU]
Acknowledged.
He's wired directly
to the cyberbrain
of the Security Supervisor.
[TOGUSA]
Commencing synchronization.
[BATOU] All right, I'm in.
Send me the ship schematics.
[BATOU] Upload complete. Are you
piggybacking my visual feed?
[TOGUSA]
Of course.
I wouldn't miss the
hero's big infiltration.
I'm already recording.
You can be a real smartass,
you know that?
[BATOU]
Pull out!
It's too dangerous for you
to stay any longer!
You'll get your brain fried!
[TOGUSA]
Not yet! Just a little longer!
[BATOU]
Dumb bastard!
Don't try to be a hero!
[TOGUSA grunts]
[KIM groans]
[GUARD gasps]
[GUARDS gasping]
[screaming]
[GUARDS whimpering, screaming]
[BATOU gasps]
[BATOU] "The Holy Spirit
descended upon him..."
Been a long time, Major.
Or what should I
call you these days?
[MOTOKO]
To be precise,
this is only a part of me
that I uploaded via satellite.
The cyberbrain in this gynoid
simply doesn't have
the capacity.
The combat control
programs alone
take up most of its free space.
So this is the best I can do for
speech and facial expression.
Go straight up this
corridor about 50 meters,
and there ought to be
an emergency terminal.
We'll gain access through that
and take control
of the entire system.
[MOTOKO chuckles]
You haven't changed one bit.
[BATOU]
Get moving, Point Man.
I got your back.
Just like the old days.
[MOTOKO] "There are few
who can hold up a mirror
and not become evil.
A mirror does not expose evil;
rather, it creates it."
[BATOU] Look, this ain't the
time to get philosophical.
I'm running low on ammo here.
[MOTOKO] "In short, mirrors
ought to be merely glanced at...
...not stared at."
[BATOU]
Sure you wanna do that?
[MOTOKO]
I just need to get control of
the ship's receiver system.
Jack into the auxiliary
terminal on the floor.
[MOTOKO]
Until I gain control,
the physical functions
of this body will cease.
My only defense will be that
.30 caliber of yours.
[BATOU] My regular brain
can handle the targeting,
but I'm down to
one spare clip.
If I have to go hand-to-hand
with those things,
I can't make any guarantees.
[MOTOKO]
I'm starting.
[MOTOKO] I have control. I've
locked out all external access.
This ship is operating
in full stand-alone mode.
[BATOU]
Is it moving?
[MOTOKO]
The ship is leaving
the extraterritorial
Northern Frontier
and heading for
a neighboring country
where the rule of law applies.
This ship itself
is hard evidence
of the criminal activity
of LOCUS SOLUS.
[BATOU]
They'll come after us.
[MOTOKO] Ships will meet us
before then to escort us in.
I've already sent out a request.
Now, care to take a peek
behind the curtain
to see what magic spell
LOCUS SOLUS cast
to breathe souls
into these dolls?
[BATOU]
Don't you know already?
[MOTOKO]
You have your suspicions, too.
Don't you?
[BATOU]
There's no noise at all.
This chamber is
completely EM-shielded?
[MOTOKO]
Ghost Dubbing...
The technology was able to
produce multiple degraded
copies in animal tests,
but it was banned
when they learned that
it destroyed the brain
of the original.
[BATOU] So, they smuggle kids
in using Kojinkai routes,
brainwash them, then dub their
Ghosts into those gynoid bodies.
This is the dirty little secret
that makes LOCUS SOLUS'
gynoids so popular.
[metal creaking]
[GIRL whimpers]
You're here to rescue us!
You did come! Mr. Vaucanson
said you would!
He was sure that people from
the police would come!
And that they'd save us!
I'm a stage 4,
but my friend Sowana,
she's already been
moved up to stage 5.
She doesn't answer me anymore
because she can't
hear me, you know?
[MOTOKO]
That inspector who was murdered
tried to help these children
by tweaking the
gynoids' ethics code.
When he was found out,
he was served up to the
yakuza as their boss' killer.
That's the long and short of it.
Mr. Vaucanson said that if
the robots did awful things,
then someone would
figure it out!
He said someone would help us!
And you did!
[BATOU] Didn't it ever occur to
you that there would be victims?
I'm not talking
about the humans.
I'm talking about the dolls
that were given souls.
Didn't you stop to think
what would happen to them?!
[GIRL whimpers]
But...
But I...
But I didn't want to
be turned into a doll!
That's all I cared about!
[sobbing]
[BATOU sighs]
[MOTOKO] "We are saddened
by a bird's cry,
but not a fish's blood.
Blessed are those with voices."
If those dolls had voices,
I bet each and every one of
them would have screamed,
"I don't want to be a human!"
I need to ask you...
Are you happy with being
the way you are now, Major?
[MOTOKO] I haven't looked at
things that way for a long time.
But at least I can say that
I'm at peace with myself now.
"Let a man walk alone,
let him commit no sin.
Let him have few wishes..."
"...like an elephant...
in the forest."
[MOTOKO]
Batou, don't forget.
Whenever you access
the Net, I'll be there.
Right by your side.
[MOTOKO]
I'm leaving.
[GIRL gasps]
[GABRIEL barks]
I think you saw her.
Did she appear to you
on that ship,
that guardian angel of yours?
[TOGUSA]
Tight-lipped as usual, huh?
Why, afraid I'll
include it in my report?
I'll swing by and get you
at 0800 tomorrow.
Not to mention,
I've gotta repay you
for looking after this monster.
Are you in a rush?
Why don't you two come in?
Getting all warm and fuzzy
with someone else's family
isn't my thing.
[TOGUSA'S DAUGHTER]
Daddy!
[TOGUSA]
There's my big girl!
[TOGUSA'S DAUGHTER]
Did you bring me a souvenir?
Where's my souvenir?
[TOGUSA]
I didn't forget. Here.
[TOGUSA'S DAUGHTER]
Yay!
[TOGUSA laughs]